There is a ghost who lives in Harmontown
From Hollywood, California
The Mid-Melt Theater and Meltdown Comics
Touchdown Boulevard
Harmontown is now in session
There is a ghost who lives in Harmontown
Happy Birthday Shawna
Shawna Tova told all of our Jewish people listening out there
Let's bring out our Game Master, Shawie, Mrs. Spencer, Quintengan
Oh yeah
As he scampers nimbly across the stage, looking at mountain goats
Let's also welcome the Mayor of Harmontown, Mr. Dan Harmon
Thank you
Thank you very much
You're too kind
What does that mean?
Well, it's humility
You're too kind
Yeah, I don't deserve it
What am I, George Carlin?
Deconstructing the...
What am I, Andy Kindler?
What am I, what am I guy?
That's an Andy Kindler joke
We've got to have Andy back on
I'm very excited tonight
We have a best-selling author
He's written a landmark book
I don't know what you'd call it
It kind of bridges, I mean, for those of you
For those few of you in the Harmontown demographic
Who may be somewhere on the spectrum
Those rare couple of you
You might be aware of a sort of
Odd kind of tension that exists between
The actually autistic, which is a hashtag that is used
You know, actually autistic
And the really, really beleaguered, frantic
Sometimes heroic, sometimes unintentionally
Villainous parents of autistic children
It's one of the most ironically divided
Realms I find
Ever since I've been writing
The character of Abbott and community
Have sort of been drawn into this world
And fascinated by it
And this guy wrote this book
It makes holding hands
Across that schism somehow possible
It's a really good book
If you've ever had questions about autism
What the hell it is
Which we all do because in the 70s
We were cattle prodding children still
Like, well, we can talk about that
They were called tingle sticks
And it was one of the most popular
The guy that adventured
That treatment method was a hero
To some of the most loving parents in the world
Because he represented a light at the end of a tunnel
And it was so exciting
Zapping kids for not hugging you
And then low and behold after a while
They start hugging you
It was looked at
How much voltage was coming out of the tingle stick
It was tingley
It was a modified cattle prod I assume they
I don't know how you calibrate it
With an autistic child
Because that's a mistake, right?
You can't calibrate it with an autistic kid
You're going to zap him and go
What do you think?
And he's going to be like
Lemons
All right
Maybe up the voltage
That sounds like a joke-making light of autism
But obviously, I care
Obviously
Isn't that obvious, people?
I mean, I read the whole fucking audio book
It's like 12 hours long
Wait, you finished it?
I did by listening to it at double speed
Nice
So when I told the guy
I thought you sounded like Martin Scorsese
Well, so you can read it
You can hear it at double speed
And it still scans
Like you can still dig it
Yeah, maybe I'm autistic
Yeah, no
I've tried this with other books
I tried this with the Scientology book
And I found myself having to slow it down
But I don't know if it's just the language
Of his writing
Is a great journalist
I'd love to talk to him about that, too
I spent so much time reading his book
That I didn't research his career
Which is probably kind of awesome, too
He's just a great journalist
But here's what the book sounds like
At double speed
In the context of a conference
And the experience proved to be a revelation
In ways that they could do
Down from the outside
Not all that much happened
They booed up cups of tea
That would still be sitting there hours later
Cold on the floor
Because they suddenly forgot what to do with tea
But not distracted
Scorsese, right?
My influence isn't that departed
I'm largely a Hitchcockian
But people don't know that
The thing about Hitchcock is
He loved revelation
But anyways
Whatever
I'm in a great mood
My wife is coming home tonight
She missed her flight yesterday
I'm a little concerned
But I've been seeing the picture
She has lost a stone
Not a kidney stone
Damn
She's lost 14 pounds or more
Which apparently the Irish
People use stones to weigh stuff
Which doesn't seem scientific
Because they come in and all
I mean, which which stone?
Could be a heavy one
Ha ha ha ha ha
Did they round up or down
To the nearest stone?
I don't even know
If what you're doing is a joke
I'm not asking an honest question
Well, I don't know what a stone is
He weighs seven stone
What is a stone?
Metrically, what is a stone?
20 pounds
Right
So yeah, so you weigh seven stones
What if you weigh 125 pounds?
She lost a stone and I think
He may have found it
While she was gone
It was inside a donut
And I like, I took a bath tonight
And I was like scrub a scrub scrub
Like, like, because I really, I literally
All right, like, I'm accustomed to the fact
That this will elicit a reaction
But in honor of our, of the book
We'll be discussing tonight
I say this, I don't care
I haven't taken a shower since she left
Yeah
Oh, I got whistles
That's five weeks
People are shocked when they hear
How little I am capable of showering
Is that five weeks?
I don't, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah
Like, I never thought about it
I never did it
You know, maybe my chiropractor
Was probably like, ugh, it's like
It's like a pin cushion
Full of stink pins
I know my chiropractor has OCD
And like, I know I must be
I must constantly challenge his career path
Every time I leave his office
He must be like, why, why, why
Why do I have to care about the human back
So much that this man isn't my life
Because I like, every time I come into the office
I have to, because you go, you face a table
And then it goes, brrr, and you go down
But I have to empty my pockets
And my pockets are always just like
There's just like, you know, random drugs
And like, beer bottle caps
And like, house keys
And just like wads of money
And he, he always like, he always
Look on his face, he's like
I might as well be the baby rats
And he always goes like, he goes like
You have a little bit of lint on your shirt
And I'm like, if he's noticing lint on my shirt
He wants to hang himself
Because here's some other stuff on my shirt
Five weeks of residue, you know
Blood stains from my back acne
Yeah
I'm not compatible with a, and he's like
Boy, if my mom saw that, like one time
He said about like all my stuff
Like he's like, you gotta get a money clip
Like, you keep telling me that, but 42
I think, I think, I think, I think
I think everything's kind of baked up here
Like I, I got my phone
And I got my pocket that has all of my money
My wads of money
And I also feel like I probably lose
Like $600 a week, which is fair to me
It feels like karmic, like, like, like, like
Because do you give to panhandlers
Or, and encourage panhandling
Or as Spencer does, do you pull over
When you see a guy recycling cans
And, like, throw money at him
That he didn't ask for it
To encourage industriousness
R.W.B.F. Skinner is our job
To program the homeless with our money
The actual solution is just ooze so much cash
That you randomly just, like, you just
It just comes out of you, like
It's actual trickle down
Yeah, yeah
Yes, with Reagan was alive today
He would be like, this is what I meant
The Star Wars initiative
That was the idea of, like
The Star Wars space station was trickle down
Justice, right?
We're going to trickle everything down
So Erin's coming back
She may actually walk in during the show
She landed at 7.30
I got a text, it may have been, no
Did you do a little arts and crafts project at home?
I did, I did a...
Yeah, I cut out Welcome Home
Out of letters
And hung them from a string
Yeah?
Bare minimum
Right?
But I really wanted to be there when the dogs are
Because I feel like they're...
Yeah, that would be YouTube-able
That's what's important
I'm a little nervous about, like
I don't know, you know
Did you speak every day or talk or text?
No, because I'm not good on the phone
And FaceTime's weird, like
She gets punished for calling me or FaceTiming me
Because I'm like, I wouldn't be able to be with Erin
I wouldn't be married to Erin
If text messaging wasn't invented
You know, I wouldn't be anything
I don't think if I...
They didn't come up with a technology
That allowed me to, like, you know
Because someone calls you on the phone
Especially FaceTime is especially, like
It's just the worst
Isn't it the worst of all possible worlds?
Because it's like, you can't...
In a normal face-to-face conversation
You have the option of minimized eye contact
You can't do that with FaceTime
You can't look at a George Jetson screen
And then just look away
You have to lock eyes with a deck of card-sized
Version of your wife and, like, stare at her
And then it'll be like
Yeah, then what did you do?
Then I drank some water
It's just not my wife
This is an image of my wife
Okay
And then, inevitably, the other person on the other end
Goes like, alright
Which means
You don't love me
And I'm always like, like, like, what?
What? And they're like, what?
And I'm like, do you mean I don't love you?
Like, what?
It's bad
FaceTime is bad for me
So, no
And that's all I... I don't know
But then, on the other hand, like, my cat, Fiv
Like, she's sick
And, like...
So then, like a...
Like an, you know, like an emotionally, like, kind of
Stunted person
Like, the reason we like animals is because they make a convenient, like
Because they can't, you know, you just... So, of course, I'm like
Balling about the cat
I, like, punched a wall, which I haven't done in 20 years
There's a big hole in the bedroom wall
And I was like, like, rolling around in the bed going
Ah!
I recorded myself crying
Because halfway through it, I was like, this sounds fake
Well, you...
You can separate those two parts of your brain that well
And, like, you're going through such a weird cry that...
Yeah, no, because it was weird, because I haven't done this in 10 years
I don't even remember crying, like, like this
Let's see
It's going to sound like Scorsese
Is this...
Wait, there's nothing I need to do, right?
I'll just come out of the speaker, grandpa
Say, I don't know if...
What's going on?
The suspense is palpable
I don't hear anything
I must have done...
Is this a voice memo or...?
Did I do it wrong?
Oh!
Oh...
Are you a basset, huh?
That's the cry of somebody that doesn't cry enough
That's why I recorded it
I wanted to talk to my therapist
I'm like, okay, this is fucked up
My wife's been gone for a month
When she calls me on the phone, she walks away from it
feeling unloved
The fucking cat that I've totally neglected
That's why it's dying, because I don't...
That was incredibly ill when you found it
It was already...
It was FIV positive, but I'm saying
Once we got the dogs, it was like
You need to take that feline shit to the curb
Girl friend
I don't know why I pause before friend
I was trying to think of maybe girl fiv
That's her name
She's been neglected since the dogs arrived
I have not
She's been chased away
by the dogs
She's repelled by the dogs
Particularly Harvey
When I come over, she comes right at me
When the dogs are upstairs with you and I'm downstairs
She comes at me and she's like
I need a friend really bad
She's so bony
She spends a lot of time outside
the front door where the dogs can't get at her
Every time you...
It's a bummer, but I just want to be honest
about that
Because the important thing about that
is like, okay, this is not...
Let's not celebrate this as a man's bond
between him and his cat
This is symptomatic of
misappropriated emotional funds
You know
And I shared that with my therapist
And I had a really good session based on that
And she said, you know, it's time
It's time for the chapter
called Dan Doesn't Have Feelings
to come to an end
And I'm gonna...
I know how to breathe
And I'll learn how to
I'll learn how to talk to
Aaron
about how much I love her
and
kind of spread that peanut butter
of feeling
across the
bread of life
Speaking of which
Happy Rosh Hashanah
I think that's what Rosh Hashanah means
the bread of life, right?
Yeah
There's no greater tragedy
than the life unleavened
I think
Famous Jewish cooking host
Emerald Berg
What said
Alright
Let's talk to our guest
about some autism
His book is called Neuro-Tribes
It's truly...
It's the first determined
thorough and enlightening
journalistic investigation
of a phenomenon that is still a mystery
to everybody
It's a New York Times bestseller
He has flattered us by coming up from San Francisco
His name is Steve Silberman
There's a microphone
Hello
Hi, nice to be here
Are you...
Are you gonna sit down?
He's settling in
Is that better?
Sorry
Sorry I was off putting
No, no, no, it's fine
There are no rules here except the ones you make
And I'm strangely
adamant about them
Now I feel like I have to say
you don't have to sit down
Steve, what you don't know is
Dan, when a guest comes out, he takes the opportunity
to sit down himself
He doesn't want to be robbed of that repose
That's great
I was kind of scared or delighted
that you were going to launch into just 10 minutes
about airline food or something
because you were just standing there with the mic
He's going to do stand-up
High chairs slightly scare me
One wonders if I'm going to teeter off
I wish we could
That's a good segue into our talk
about autism
Because the big theme
in the book is the realization
which is ironically realized
long after Hans Asperger
said it originally
His feelings
on the subject lost to the ages
until recently
It's less about
diagnosis and treatment than it is about realizing
that there's different kinds of brains
and there's a lot of ways we can
make the environment compatible
to anybody that we happen to run across
That's true
Basically in 1930s Vienna
he started seeing these kids in his clinic
who were interestingly mischievous
They would steal a bunch of shit
to build up their chemistry sets
They would get kicked out of schools
because they didn't take the teacher seriously
It was sort of a clinic of last resort
One kid was
there's a typical thing
especially with mildly autistic people
is
obsession with
particular areas
One kid was obsessed with poison and was there
because he had stolen cyanide from his school
There were red flags
Exactly
Some of the kids ended up there
through the court system and stuff
The thing about this clinic was that
it was amazingly progressive place
because it was half clinic, half school
Kids wouldn't just bring
kids wouldn't just get brought there
for diagnosis or whatever
The people who worked in the clinic actually lived
with the kids and observed them
tying their shoes in the morning
if they could or couldn't
That's how they learned to recognize autism
Asperger and his colleagues
believed that autism and autistic traits
were very common
In fact
that people with autistic traits had been
accelerating the evolution of science
technology and culture
millennia
and we're already familiar
to all of us through the sort of pop culture
archetypes of the absent minded professor
Dr. Who
Right, well that wasn't invented yet
but autistic people would soon
make sure that it was
It's not a character
but I mean before the word
Asperger which by the way it should be noted
Asperger did not
He didn't discover Asperger syndrome
He discovered what we now call the autism spectrum
And was saying in the beginning
This is a spectrum
and it was later
what was it the 70's when somebody coined
the phrase Asperger syndrome?
Yeah, and that was a marketing term
actually because it was
an autism diagnosis that did not contain
the word autism
and one of the reasons why it proved
to be so popular was that
it did not carry the heavy burden of shame
and stigma that the word autism
carried because parents
had been blamed for autism not by
Asperger, one might note
by Leo Connor
the Edison to
Asperger's Tesla
in the discovery of autism
was a parallel I kept thinking about
What an appropriate parallel
Because Edison was the more successful one
he was the more neurotypical one
and he was better at issuing press releases
and he was
He was American
and he had two advantages over Asperger
He was, even though he actually
was from Eastern Europe too, he lived
in America, he worked at Johns Hopkins Hospital
in Baltimore, but
even better from the
perspective of history, he didn't work for Nazis
like Hans Asperger did
Because Hans Asperger's wonderful clinic
in the University of Vienna Hospital
Well, it happened to be in a country
that the Nazis marched into
in 1938 to annex
for the German fatherland
and so at that point Asperger's
position in his culture became
very, very tricky
because the Germans, inspired by the way
by American eugenics
scientists, were attempting to
basically flush
people with hereditary diseases
and disorders out of the gene pool
This is one of the craziest things about this book
because it's completely unexpected
There's probably
whole entire books written about this stuff
but they're probably
tend towards conspiracy
dramas and things like this
but the cold hard facts are that
the things that Hitler's reading
while he's in jail, before he writes
Mein Kampf, are coming from our
side of the Atlantic
We were becoming obsessed with eugenics
and
unashamed of them because
they didn't have the current stigma because
there weren't no Hitler yet
You describe
a conference where
it's like the world's fair
of eugenics
By the way, there was a slogan
in use at that conference which was
echoed in orphan black recently
the self-direction of human evolution
that creepy leaky guy
That was actually a real slogan from
the American eugenics movement
and they had like the ideal
paragon of civilization
was this white athlete from Harvard
They had statues
They had composites made of the perfect man
which were based on the
ten handsomest guys from Harvard
or something
Really
and it was
some of the speeches
some of the panels being done there
included titles like
the Jewish problem
and the Negro problem
and all kinds of stuff about Negroes
and what are they
and what do they want
Why are they hanging around all of a sudden
It was
bone-chilling
I was completely unexpected because hearing him
talking into a book about
Temple Grandin but I'm seeing like this crazy
Alan Moore
It feels like an alternate history where there should
be zeppelins in the sky
That was the thing man
There have been a million books written about
Asperger's syndrome or autism or whatever
but they've usually looked at
autism through a strictly medical lens
and there's actually been
very very little written about Asperger
in his clinic and I thought
why hasn't anyone ever pulled the camera back
to see like the burning
Jewish storefronts
You know
euthanasia going on
That's the irony is that
what the history is written by the winners
and the myth that favors us
is that
it was the 1920s
and late ladies loved short hair
and sitting on flagpoles
and FDR had a plan
for the kaleidoscope
and meanwhile
in Europe a growing menace
Adolf Hitler invents anti-Semitism
and slowly somehow manages
to convince half the planet
that it's a great idea
and we sort of
the absolute
ugly truth of it is that
there is an uplifting
aspect to it
an uplifting irony to the fact that
we're flirting with it in open air
inviting Jewish physicians
to a conference
to hear talk about the Jewish problem
they weren't banned from the thing it was like
let's just be anti-Semitic just because
it's fashionable you can't do anything about it
Dr. Rosen
Do you want to be a doctor or not?
Sure it couldn't hurt
and it's like well why do you talk like that
that's the title of my next conference
why are you so Jewish
and he's like
are you there enough?
Son of a Tovah
and it's the shadow that we cast
by being allowed to talk about it
by publishing books about it
by
the triple irony of
the euphemism of the word eugenics
which means the good birth
the fact that it took
what happened then
for everyone to be shamed
into a proper historical perspective
is it's simultaneously
totally cynical but also
kind of like well
good that's what you get
this is
language's thought
and thought is deed
and you can't just
walk around seething with hatred
and be polite about it
that is going to end up
being the same
as actual
bad physical things happening
and also at some point the Nazis must have been like
why are the Americans objecting to this
we are just putting their theories into practice
they must have absolutely
like Vonnegut used to use
they must have thought for a while
they could flip a coin
which side's America going to come in on
because we were certainly making money from both sides
selling oil and bullets
before we got into the war
so
I'm sure there were rooms in the Nazi headquarters
where they were like
there's still a good 40% chance when they finally
come in
guys, Pearl Harbor, ah fuck
they're not going to be able to spin that one
I guess they're
are we still? yeah, access of evil
why did we do that
what have we gotten
free sushi
it's bad by the time it gets here
it's 1939
free sushi
it's a good way to die
anyways
that's a huge
a huge weird side note
but you had to do it
you had to reshine
like long lost light
on that fact because
Asperger
that it seems to be
one of the big answers to the question
why was this also complicated
and arduous
why is something that's being discovered way back then
still in the 70's being treated with cattle prods
and part of the answer is because
Asperger is just like bound
to, you know, there's pictures of him
and there's swastika somewhere in the picture
but the story is worthy
of a
Robert DeNiro movie or something
and the guy was a hero
he didn't like no Nazis
well he was a complex hero
he probably had to make some concessions
that we don't know about
to not have his head chopped off
basically
you don't mention any of those in your book
but you paint a picture of a guy who by virtue
of his love of these children
is absolutely horrified
by the idea and he's sort of
some of the ironic concessions
Dan, could you use the word ironic more tonight?
one of the stranger
and more poetic concessions
that he makes
he tries to
he tries to make a case for these kids
continuing to get treatment because they'll make
good code breakers one day
and if you think about it with Alan Turing
in a sense
we use the Aspergerian brain
to break the German codes
but they were too busy killing
the children that carried those genes
to make use of those talents
the children that invented
as they entered adulthood
if they were time and time again
it's like
on one hand we have to eschew the myth
I don't think anyone suffers from this myth anymore
the idea that every single person with autism
has some kind of hidden superpower
like an ex-man
but it is true time and time again
that through environmental understanding
doing the equivalent
of a ramp
for someone as bound to a chair
which in this case
involves sort of opening your own mind
changing your own time scale
that
though the people
that suffer from childhood autism
that are raised in that patient of an environment
which is no easy thing in a capitalist world
though they
do flourish
they do learn how to communicate in their own
time and to the extent that
there is disparity between the way they communicate
the thoughts in their heads at mainstream society
they have
always been
it's not an exaggeration to say that they are
progressing our society
right and one reason why we didn't
know how cool autistic people could be
for a couple of decades
was that they were put in institutions
because the guy who took credit for discovering autism
who was not Hans Asperger
but this guy Leo Connor
said that even the special
talents of his kids like
this kid could recognize 18 symphonies
before he turned 2
he could correctly identify 18 symphonies
but Connor instead of saying
oh this is really cool
this is a specialized form of intelligence
which is what Asperger said
he called it autistic intelligence
but Connor said oh no no
these kids are just unloved
their parents are refrigerator mothers
and overambitious fathers
so the treatment is to remove the child
and put them in an institution
and have their family pictures taken out of the family albums
quietly and never mentioned again
one of the most chilling things is like
before the rise
between World War I and World War II
there's a German doctor who sends out a questionnaire
so we're still in a time
when if you're born with what we now call
autism you're called feeble minded
you're shuttled
into an institutional world
and you're a ward of the state
and you're a burden on the parents
emotionally and financially
and this doctor sends out this questionnaire
to the men of the household
specifically
and says
how would you feel
about an artificial shortening
of your child's life
to the extent that they're unable to
live with their disability
asking these sort of leading questions
about euthanasia
and not only was the response overwhelmingly
oh absolutely
but with an extra order
of macabre fries
that is I wish however
that you just wouldn't ask
I wish you just killed the kid
and tell me it was natural causes
that would be
if you're looking for what I would like to order
from this menu
and we have to
you know
it's dark shit we don't have to sympathize
but we have to
we have to remember
what the fuck do we have to remember Dan shut up
it's hard
the world was ignorant
and the poor people were held responsible
for their
kids disabilities
and they were never
a ticket to increase social standing
you know I have an autistic kid
didn't mean oh maybe I should get a promotion
at work
and also at some point they were being bombarded
by propaganda that such children
were a burden on the state
and they would literally have pictures of these sort of
drooling maniacs from assignments
and saying 50 million Reich marks a year
and so
they started doing it fairly publicly too
they didn't really hide it
and they realized it was such bad PR
like nobody is going to sign off on that
even the hardest Nazi
household is not going to sign off
on the killing of German children
even if they are mentally disabled or whatever
and so then they just put it way on the
secrets
well right and in fact
something that I talk about in the book
is that the Germans really used
the killing of disabled children
and adults as a practice run
for Jews
that's how they figured out how to do
oh we can put the trains here
and move the bodies here
because the first one the gas van
the thing that they would do
they would put a pipe through the exhaust pipe
of a van that was for euthanasia
they had different techniques
they would slowly feed them less
that's a good thing
the specialist diet
and word got out
even though it was supposed to be a secret
when the feeble minded are gone
we will be the next to go
and children would run away from these buses
even though they weren't supposed to know what they were for
when they liberated I don't know if it was the Russians
or the Americans
we were closing in on Berlin at the end of the war
and they liberated one of the camps
and they found loads of
twins
almost all the survivors were these twin children
because they were doing lots of tests on
twins and genetics
about like can we all sort of
find a way to fine tune
making perfect little Aryan children
and they used the euthanasia program
to do the kinds of
esoteric medical experiments
that would have been impossible
in cases where the patient was expected to live
basically
what did you find
as you're delving into that
darkness
you're reading so many books
letters
you're knee deep in that world
did you come away with an impression
about what our obsession
with eugenics was
was it a genuine, was it face
value, a fear that we were going
to mongrelize ourselves
into extinction, or was it
was it just a
just a completely dishonest
do you know what, here's the deal
like while I was writing that chapter
I saw an ad
from some startup dude
who was basically
selling some kind of new genomic scanning
technology
and he was talking about things like autism
and ADHD and dyslexia
as like glitches in the human program
and we can finally fine
tune our own code
so that we can eliminate these glitches
it was sort of like that's exactly
what eugenics came out of
the notion that we can perfect humanity
by eliminating difference
and again
I'll use the word irony but
really fittingly because
the neurotypicals
that are the villains in this story if there are any
these neurotypicals were
just to find that word for me what does that mean
non-autistic people and that's a word
invented by autistic people
so it was sort of a hack because
it was a wonderful word because
instead of always being medicalized by us
that allowed them to
medicalize us
it was invented on the internet in the late 90s
so they seemed to have a capacity
for racism which is not founded on
logic
neurotypicals
isn't that a little strange
I kept waiting
to hear stories about
Hans Asperger
he was surrounded
by Nazis and completely incentivized
to toe the line
to the point where you're cautiously
assuming that if we saw every moment of his life
we probably would click our tongues
we probably would
and
but he
the weird thing is that
we have this tribe
of cognitively
variant people
who because of their seclusion
because
they tend to propel us
societally towards things like ham radio
which
we'll talk about that
in a second but how fascinating it is
how it just absolutely is
that autistic people have been trying to make
the internet since before there was internet
laying around
and that we all
love that world
we all love emoticons
we all love facebook
but in no uncertain terms
it's not because you've done the research now
so it might have been tacky
before reading this book to say
they invented the internet
autistic people invented the computer languages
that we use
but it's clear from your book
I mean it is
it's a general fact that you can say
that's the thing before I wrote this book
I wrote for 15 years for wired magazine
and so people were constantly saying
oh he's on the spectrum
oh Bill Gates he's on the spectrum
Steve Jobs on the spectrum
and so I actually went to look to figure out
what the history was
what were these people who would now say would be
super geeks on the spectrum
what were they doing before there was an internet
computer through morse code
over ham radio
because there was no facial signals to parse
you could
obsess about your favorite technology
and really get rewarded for it
you could leave your old bullied
geeky, nerdly identity behind
and become like this amazing person on the internet
with your, or not the internet, ham radio
with your call letters
and so it was a strict
meritocracy like programming is
so it didn't matter if you were a total dork
like if you could do the shit
you were cool
and the ham radio
community and also the
science fiction fandom community
were both organized by the same guy
who I write about in the book
named Hugo Gernsback
who almost certainly had Asperger syndrome
and by the way I do want to say
I'm not just diagnosing people willy nilly
like if I say in the book that somebody
probably had Asperger syndrome
there's always a higher authority involved
like Oliver Sacks
or in this case it's Hugo Gernsback's
biographer Gary Westfall believed he was
Aspergian. Anyway
he was a very weird guy but he had a
genius idea which was to
make home electronics
available to hobbyists rather than
just scientists in other words
really cool kids like they could order
stuff from his mail order catalog
put it together and become a ham radio
operator and in those catalogs
there's pictures of nerdy kids
and now he sort of
developed this culture that when you look
back at the 50s you're like
the whole comic con
everything kind of all of a sudden comes
together it all snaps together
the culture of fandom
the culture of
overlapping with nerdiness
our consumption of pop culture
there's always been a fascination with
science fiction associated with
people on the spectrum and
it's because of the
ability to logically consume it
the fact that you're talking about
worlds built from scratch which can make more sense
than the confusing worlds described
in Catcher and the Rye or Freight Gatsby
it's like I guess he was rich
what am I learning from this book
whereas it's like
Zeep Zanflord landed in his
space pod and stepped out it's like I can access
every aspect of this and I can
the first
fanzines and in fact the word fandom
the concept of fanaticism
fan groups and things that all came out of the ham radio culture
which was connected to this
this science fiction pulp
pulp culture
comic books and catalogs where you could buy
chemistry kits and
and it was all started by
a guy who clearly
wanted to create his own world
and not only that
but his best bud was Nikola Tesla
Nikola Tesla had
the chops to design
that future world
that's why I wanted you to bring your book up
because that's one of the passages I was hoping you could
there's two passages I don't know
if you can willy-nilly like page them up
but one of them is
Tesla talking about the future
describing
what the world
is going to be like
do you put Tesla on the spectrum
he wasn't neurotypical I actually don't
retro diagnose him but he had many many
autistic traits he was like fascinated with
glittering things
he was very very honest
so like when his two aunts
asked him who was more attractive
he said something like well you're not
you're not quite as ugly as the other
so he had that aspergian utter frankness
yeah
well I have a question but maybe we'll do after you
read this passage
if I can find it that is
maybe I can talk
here it is I got it
okay quote
when wireless meaning ham radio
when wireless is perfectly
applied the whole earth
will be converted into a huge brain
Tesla told an interviewer
in 1926
we shall be able to communicate with one another
instantly irrespective of distance
not only this but through television
and telephony we shall see
and hear one another as perfectly as though we
were face to face despite
intervening distances of thousands of miles
FaceTime
and the instruments through which
we shall be able to do this will be
amazingly simple compared with our present
telephone a man will be able
to carry one in his vest pocket
we shall be able to witness
and hear events the inauguration
of a president the playing of a world series
game the havoc of an earthquake
or the terror of a battle just
as though we were present
this is 1926 people
I mean on one hand
it seems like a no-brainer but yeah
kind of that's because we're on a podcast
I mean
like Tesla again
it's like Tesla and Asperger both
probably not neurotypical
and their rivals their successful
trademarking like dominant
guys who
popular fringe culture
actually we're on
has it that Edison
there's backward things about
our current society that are
hard baked into it because Tesla's
like more
populist empowering
I don't know
going back to AC versus DC
you know just Edison's proficiency
for trademarking and patenting
and his desire for hegemony
like conquering Tesla's
reclusive fanatical
desire for everything
to make sense
and one of Asperger's artistic traits
was that he was able to
resist peer pressure
so
while everybody else around him was
thinking in terms of eliminating difference
he said something like that
which is different from the norm is not necessarily
inferior which was a very
un-nazi like thing to say
because there's a skepticism so that's what I was seeing before
my train of thought got
remarkably
tangentialized
this idea that
it's the neurotypical
of the world who
seem to have a gift for
politics, racism
war
seduction
charm I guess
diplomacy
white lies, flattery
yeah, fashion
hygiene
like
I'm sitting right here
they
but the weird thing about it is
these are all
like
these are all things
if an autistic kid
wants to memorize a map of Los Angeles
my friend Chris McKenna has
a couple of autistic loved ones in his family
describing
one of their obsession
with road maps and things
and every time he meets somebody he asks him
where are they coming from and where are they going
and then that's his conversation
is that instead of small talk
he can tell them about our route
to take next time they drive
can I just jump in and tell a little anecdote
I went to an autistic retreat
so I was one of the very few
neurotypical people with like
about 70 autistic people of all ages
and the second day that I was there
I went up to a guy who I thought was cool
the night before and I said
hey man, how'd you sleep? and he said
why?
it was like
an excellent question
and I realized like how much
fucking energy
I put into like reputation management
like every time I walk into a room
hi, how'd you sleep? I'm charming
you know
wow
I have to share this
because
and I have no idea what the person I'm talking about is
I'm not certainly not qualified to diagnose
anything but there's such a
I had an encounter
where I went up to somebody at a party and I said
I stood next to him
and I was like this guy
he gets picked down by people
I love him
I'm an outcast, I'm gonna log some hours here
I'm gonna be a wonderful guy
and like
I'm gonna talk to him, not
cool people
and so I stand next to him and I look around the party
and I go wow, looks like everybody's here
and
I just spent the next eight minutes
in a monologue
about how I'm like
well I didn't get the list of people
that should be here, I wouldn't be able to compare
the thing, it was
maddening because in my mind I was thinking
you little prick
I'm stupid here
you know
and it's like that happens on a cellular level all the time
in interactions but like
what's at the core of it of course when you take a step back from it
is like you said
why am I asking how someone slapped
we could have spent that
time inventing something
I love the
early science fiction fandom
nickname for neurotypicals was
the mundane
and so it's like
those are the people who think they rule the world
the mugwumps
how easy is it to go back and
reverse diagnose people
are there certain
can you look back at Dostoevsky or Chaucer
are these people like
are there a way
to kind of definitively say
or you can kind of guess
well
some people are much more promiscuous
about their retro diagnosing than I am
like I'm a science writer
so I have to be strict
is there an etiquette, that's another thing
like when I was in Wired and I did that interview
where I told the guy at the end of the interview
I was like by the way and I took a quiz online
and it's like maybe I don't know that
and seeing an imprint I'm like so tacky
and where there's tackiness there must be etiquette
is there a guiding principle for
no
some people seriously self-diagnosed
and you know
I believe it's called self-diagnosed peer supported
in the autistic community
so it's like basically if you're
if you're allegedly autistic peers say
yes you are like us
then it's cool
if you just declare
yourself autistic
and there's no sort of
no one to gauge yourself against it's not as cool
but the thing that I'll say is
people often say to me
don't you think we're just diagnosing
weird kids too much you know
I don't actually believe that
because virtually everyone who I've met
who had an official diagnosis
really did need like
special forms of support and whatever
and had a hard time
passing among the mundane
in the beginning of your book
talking about
the emergence of the concept
of neurodiversity which is simply to say
that ADHD
dyslexia all these things
by the way all of my friends and so they're like
Justin Roiland definitely ADHD
co-creator of this cartoon I made
like Joel McHale dyslexic
Rob Schrab dyslexic like probably ADD too
like every those
those letters kind of like
if you live in Los Angeles and you make stuff
you're always like
interesting thing about your book is that you don't have to now think
am I being tacky and fashionable
by diagnosing it's just
well these are traits these are
these are autistic traits you know like
whatever which are not rare which are shared by everybody
right and I mean
when I first came across your
community here
I thought that it was kind of like looking
at broad swaths of the spectrum
through the other end of the telescope
like most people look at
you know autism only through the medical
end of the telescope
you know but if you look at it through the cultural
like that's why I called my book neuro tribes
instead of like
some word related to disorder
like I don't claim to know what the order
of the universe should be
so I avoid the word disorder
but it's there's
and if you just wanted to sell books you would have called it titties
there you go
titties inside
neurotitties
it's a pop-up book
someone's buying that domain name right now
I would bet you anything
it already exists
I think I'm cutting you off to
talk about what you were trying to talk about
which is that you describe yourself
as profoundly neurotypical
you're very very
outgoing friendly and you admire
you're a fan of the autistic community
as I also
am in your case
it's not so much out of a sense of kinship
it's almost like a sibling
kind of you actually admire
the things
the qualities that you do not have
exactly great minds
do not necessarily think a lot
and so you've been a messenger
I mean your book that you've written you've surely noticed
that the autistic community
tell me if I'm wrong
or write about this because that's how I found your book
because I just check in with the autistic community
because I find them amazing
and fascinating and especially in regards
to their conflict with groups like Autism Speaks
and the ironies that ensue
I've read more than one
essay by an autistic adult
sort of celebrating
and also rolling their eyes
at the fact that it took a neurotypical
to be the Marco Polo of Autism's China
that's true
now these parents are listening
that won't listen to us because a neurotypical
wrote a New York Times bestseller
well at my
book launch I was very very happy
to see we had a party in the
Haydn Ashbury in San Francisco where I lived
and I was very very happy to see
actually autistic people
in the audience
because usually there's like this huge divide
between like the autism speaks
parents and the clinicians
and the autistic people
but kind of everybody was
in the same room there
and what was really great was
at some point in the Q&A afterwards
somebody asked me like
what do you think the virtues of getting a diagnosis
in midlife are
and so while I'm thinking about it I'm thinking like
who the fuck
I'm not supposed to answer that question
we have experts here
you know I asked if there was anybody
in the autistic section
sort of they were sitting together
I wanted to answer the question
and this woman stood up and she said
getting a diagnosis in midlife
was like finding the Rosetta Stone
to myself
was like holy fuck
I couldn't have come up with that
is there a lot of tribal pride
among autistic
well there is now
but that's after decades of like being brutalized
and exterminated
and you know I mean yeah
are there groups of like
autistic people like playing World of Warcraft
in a room right now going this fucking mundane
call me up earlier and like
is it fun for them to rib us about being neurotypical
sure definitely
and not only that like one of the first things
that I figured out by going to that
autistic retreat was that
most of the clinical stereotypes about autistic people
were completely wrong like there's this
belief that autistic people like lack a sense
of irony don't get satire
and they don't really have a sense of humor
and so this one
autistic guy who had just been appointed to the National
Council on Disability
Ariniaman of the autistic self advocacy
network was introduced to the group
and so
they were doing flap pause
which is this
it's like turning this stigmatized behavior
into a symbol of celebration
and so from the back this girl said
flap pause
it was nice because it also doesn't create
this startling burst of sound
that freaks them out you know
so from the back of the room this young woman said
we love you Ari
if we were capable of feeling such an emotion
hahahaha
yeah the
the myth of the no feeling thing
I think that simply comes from
the fact that there's this
weird skepticism and I keep coming back
to this thing I never get to finish
this thought because I don't really know what this thought is
and it's something to do with the fact that
well if you want to be systemic about life
like
the actual Spock
if he was a real alien being
that thought logically about things
would he or would he not
be in favor of eugenics
like because when you apply
cold this concept of the cold hard
logic and he's a
human calculator
but obviously not
honestly not
there's more to it than that
there's one other passage
if you can find it it would be earlier in your book
it's about that guy
the Tesla of chemistry
Henry Cavendish
yeah my book
opens unexpectedly
about 200 years ago
because that allowed me to describe
a very autistic person
before there were these layers of clinical cliches
yeah
I have the reactions of the other people around him
who had no idea
what to make of his fascinating peculiarities
or whatever
and he was a guy who took
the same walk at the same time every night
wore the same clothes every day
when they would wear out he would tell his tailor
to make an identical outfit
he ate the same dish at every meal
leg of mutton
there was a chamber maid
who surprised him on the steps
with a broom and so he ordered
a new set of steps
so that it wouldn't happen again
that's not the same cold hard logic
that goes into genocide
there's no laziness there
he practically
invented science
he measured
the density of the earth
in a shack in his backyard
he figured out how to do it with pendulums
and it was like the best
estimate of the density of the earth for
100 years or whatever
and he didn't just do science
he invented fields of science
and yet
he was completely
immobilized practically at parties
he would just stand off to the side
listening
looking away
and that was something that Asperger picked up on
Connor was like
they failed to make eye contact
but Asperger was like
actually they're learning really a lot about the world
they're just not looking at you
because looking at you is actually
overloading their senses
and there was a colleague who described him
do you remember the light metaphor
the white light
a cold light which warms nothing
you could
find that I'll just use you as a google engine
have you been traveling all over the country
world doing readings
and selling this? well this just came out
like two and a half weeks ago so it like
popped on the best server list
so that's good
congratulations
don't we need different words
for things like compassion
in a world where
the people who have been responsible
for
creating a more Roddenberry like world
are
accused of
are describable as not having it
and yet the people who have been trying
to cure them in childhood
are people who are cattle prodding them
right right the people who supposedly
have the empathy that these people lack
are the people sticking cattle prods
I feel like there's a word we're missing
in the English language that maybe an autistic person could
invent for us
so that we can stop making that
there's a distinction we're making that's not 100%
accurate about whether they're
feeling things
and the great thing is that once
the internet was finally invented and I talk about how
a
very autistic person helped invent the first
social network that was open to the public
actually this guy Lee Felsenstein
but anyway the internet gave a place
to autistic people where they could
talk to each other rather than
just talking to clinicians
so instead of being isolated patients
brought there by their parents
they could just talk to each other
and one of the first things they figured out was that autism
persists into adulthood
like believe it or not
this is one of the things that most people forget
but up until the 70s or 80s
really the 80s
the diagnosis was not really available
to adults or even teenagers
and Americans and people say
why are the rates of diagnosis going up
one reason is that
teenagers and adults could not get the diagnosis
until the 80s and 90s
and that was one thing
that Asperger Syndrome was good for
it's simply like yeah it's the Wendy's and Burger King
of
which is neither a good thing or a bad thing
it's like we've developed since the early 80s
systems that are now available
to clinicians to diagnose autism
so the diagnosis just
went through the roof
and also another thing that people I would say under
appreciate generally even some autistic people
is Rain Man
like people think oh what a cliche
Dustin Hoffman, Raymond Babbitt with the cards
and the toothpicks whatever
but actually that film was completely
revolutionary
because even people who had been in autism circles
for decades had never seen
an autistic adult
certainly on screen ever
and so Raymond Babbitt made autism
recognizable
to teachers, to parents
to autistic people themselves
to clinicians and so
that was one of the sort of elements
of the perfect storm of autism awareness
that created the apparent epidemic
Steve I know I'm totally ignorant
about autism but is it a strictly
neurological thing
is it a developmental
thing in the brain? Yes
although we still don't have a biomarker
for it so there are no blood tests
for autism there are no brain scans for autism
like you can't... Can you take autistic
like can you scan brains
and see similarities in autistic brains or not?
Well that's a subject of much debate
but the problem is that
every six months another study comes out
it's too much white matter, it's too little white
matter, it's too much connectivity
it's too little connectivity
it's like there are all these conflicting studies
about what the biomarkers of autism are
It's certainly hereditary
and that was one of the things I asked
So on one hand you have a spike in diagnosis
because that's I suppose the biggest question
that your book would need to answer that someone would come to
is what's going on with this autism
epidemic
which you get right to
in the opening of the book
and slowly answer
throughout the book and it seems to be
correct me if I'm wrong
the two biggest factors are
what we just talked about
the increased availability
of the diagnosis
but you hint at
early in the book this odd
like
it's an engineer's disease
that it does seem
hereditary and that
our modern world created
by autistics
our Jetson world
that we all love
that we all fantasize about in science fiction
that autistics make a reality by actually thinking
outside the actual box
that that world
in a crazy
poetic
fairy tale makes it possible
basically for engineers to fuck more
Exactly
that people who used to be defined
by their virginity are now
able to hook up
and you were saying yesterday, I don't know if it was from Steve's book or not
that
Silicon Valley is seeing a big rise of like
autistic birth rate or something like that
well that was the subject of my article
the geek syndrome in 2001
and yes that's interesting
but and that might
be happening it's geneticists call it
assortative mating which is basically
when people who are carrying
traits for a certain condition
get together there's more of a chance
that their kid will have the condition
and that's how I
first got into autism because I'm not a parent
I'm not a relative I now have an autistic trans
nephew I will say
but
I got into it because I was on a boat with a hundred
computer programmers
and towards the end of this cruise
in Alaska I asked
this big programmer guy Larry Wall
if I could come to interview him at his house
and I noticed that
he had customized his house
like he had turned the buzzer on his
clothes dryer to a light
so it was not so startling and annoying
and
he said yeah you can come to my house but I should tell you
we have a profoundly autistic daughter
and then
like six months later I was writing about another family
in Silicon Valley can I come to your house
woman said yeah by the way we have an autistic
daughter and I thought hmm that's odd
and the next day I was in a cafe
in San Francisco telling that exact story
to a friend of mine and this woman at the next table
said oh my god
do you realize what's going on
there's an epidemic of autism
in Silicon Valley
and so like the hairs on the back of my neck
went up you know and that turned out to be
like a doorway through which I
stepped into the next you know 15 years
of my life and this book
is an attempt to get right what
I sort of bunted on
in the geek syndrome because yes
a sort of meeting is fascinating
all these dungeons and dragons people getting
together by talking through screens
finding their way through dungeons
increasing efficiency
right right so it used to be a map
on a graph paper now you can like
use a computer to get through that dungeon
right and so that's interesting
but why are autism
rates also going up in rural
Alaska for instance you know might be
dungeons and dragons there too but
anyway so this was my
effort to get right what I had sort
of wimped out on in geek
syndrome yeah it took me five years it could
be a whole I mean it gets into a whole area
of like what is the nature of evolution
why does a stable fox why does its fur
get in value non valuable
within one you know what
is everything operating on a pure
Darwinian mutation engine or do we
do we store
you know what is their feedback going into
DNA are we therefore
expressing our
own evolution through
increased incidents of
of a more of a
disease quote-unquote disease
more compatible with
an emerging world and also
more causal of it
that was very well said I must say
increased skepticism of
pigheaded politicians increased
a desire
to think laterally increased
need to do
to create a world that is not
an assault on the senses
I mean is our species
surviving the same as those
goddamn giraffes with their long necks
one of my favorite
moments in the book and in
autism history is when Asperger
asked the kid in his clinic if he's
religious and he says I don't
like to say I'm not religious I just
don't have any proof of God
and I feel like he was like you know
a lot of people are like that now
right you know do you foresee
a showdown between the Mondains
and the autism
did you see a great apocalypse
coming down the road
there's a continuous showdown
we all have to fight the good fight
as for told in quadrophenia
exactly
we are the mods
I just think
it might be
that beautiful
it's a colleague describing this
if I can find it
your 200 year old retro diagnosis
of this guy who
who time and time
again I mean he discovered
Argonne you know before
the guy that's credited with discovering Argonne
Cavendish? Yeah
and it was one of the most
like just
eloquent ways of describing what the guy
didn't know he was describing an autistic
person
it just came from a colleague
and I thought it was so interesting the distinction between
different kinds of light
the most probing glimpse into the soul of this
elusive genius Henry Cavendish
provided by the chemist George Wilson
who wrote the first full length biography of Cavendish
in 1851 etc
he painted Cavendish's emotional life
as a series of negations
he did not love
he did not hate
he did not hope
he did not fear
his brain seems to have been but a calculating engine
he was not a poet
a priest or a prophet
but only a cold clear intelligence
reying down pure white light
which brightened everything
on which it fell
but warmed nothing
I like it
and it's 9-11
another
cold
light that
warmed nothing
well
we flew you up from San Francisco
is there
like
do you
describe yourself as the prototypical
neurotypical you
except I'm secretly shy, don't forget that part
and then you talked about
you said you were married to a fella that is
very artistic
well, he has more artistic traits than I do
and I thought in my head
as a
hammy tacky host
I was thinking like is there
a way to weave
these things
as a gay journalist
oh my god
is there
did you ever find yourself looking through that lens
as your
civil rights movement happening among autistic people
here's the thing
certainly
this is really the story
of people walking
towards freedom out of the darkness
more or less
and do I relate to that because now I'm a happily married
gay man
totally
yeah
I guess that's all I wanted
was applause
I'm sorry Steve, are you saying that
your husband is autistic?
no
sorry Keith
you both have a certain
amount of autistic traits
so a neurotypical person
like you or I could have
any number of autistic traits
for instance
autistic traits are common
who knows if there's anyone in this room who thinks they might have autistic traits
give me for instance
of yours
autistic traits of mine
in social situations
I feel like I'm running out of energy
and I really need to get some place where I'm
by myself and not so worn out
by constant attention
so that's one
obsessive
focus
once I figured out that
this same guy had worked for both Conor
and Asperger thus answering one of the huge
mysteries of autism history
I was fucking obsessed
like I
remember this moment when
I really wanted to be able to see a room
in Vienna in 1938
so I literally like
plowed through Google images until I
found a picture of that room
with the portrait of Hitler
behind the podium and it was like
yes I am God I can see into a room
in 1938
how would you describe when your research
that's a question I have as a
dropout journalism major
and a
because I sometimes find
I tried to find out how coconuts work
the other day and I was astounded
that
there was no information about it
online not the specific kind I needed
there was so much of one
as a person who doesn't know the mechanism
in the coconut that confuses you the most
so you didn't get to the bottom of that
I didn't understand
I couldn't look I was looking at a coconut
I had ordered a coconut filled with ice
cream from my local vegan store
because I'm healthy
and I was eating out of
the coconut ice cream and I was like
this thing is fucking amazing
it's so good and I started looking up
coconuts and it was like
yeah like you could make oil
and all that stuff
and the thing that kept plaguing me was
like why would a tree
trees like an apple is designed
to make a chimp want to eat it
or a raccoon or something so it poops out the
seeds somewhere other than where the tree is
so I kept thinking like why would you
play this hard to get
as a tree the answer is obvious
to anyone who probably
30 people tweeted me in 10 seconds
but not until after
I was amazed that I could google it
and within an hour not have found
a very very simple obvious answer
that probably people who grew up in Hawaii
know immediately or whatever
it's like they're designed to float
they've bypassed mammalian
technology and probably predated it
a coconut is a little
water proof submarine a boat
with a little bit of potable water in it
and a bunch of sperm and a bunch of coconut egg
and it's designed to float
to another island and grow to it
it's fucking brilliant
I once had a question like that for Oliver
Sacks who is the
recently deceased unfortunately neurologist
who actually wrote forward to my book
and was a very good friend of mine and a wonderful guy
he wrote books like the man who mistook
his wife for a hat anyway
we were once in a health food store or whatever
and I picked up this bunch
of sage leaves that were very furry
and I knew that Oliver was not only
a neurologist but a botanist kind of
and so I said to him I wonder
why sage has such furry leaves
and he looked at me and he said because
they like it
that's a
unsatisfying answer
and you're like do you like hanging out with me
like I
wanted you to come have a barbecue but
if you're bored or you want to wait in the car
I was just trying to make small talk man
now did you obsess on the sage leaves and go look that up
did you ever
it was satisfying
I'm a slow reader and Dan
listened to your thing at double speed and made you sound like
what's his name
I'm a fetishist
with paper
I'm kind of a slow reader because
I have to stop, look up every word I've done
or even if it's words I do know
I go what's the etymology
of that and then I'll go down
rabbit holes of where did that
root come from and then
I have to go back to a bunch of other pages
that reminds me of other words and then I have to look at all the pictures
of the inside of the room and if they reference a painting
I have to look at all the artist paintings
I did that for five years writing this book
well so that's what I wanted to ask
of selfishly just to interrupt
because that's my thing it's like so
if coconuts
were president
no no no
if I can't
just give me a second
if I can't find out about coconuts
in two hours on the internet
my question is how much information
is actually on the internet
you said this is a 15 year
you describe yourself as sitting in stacks of books
at universities
how much of our information
is
of what kind is making it over
to the sky net
is there a bias toward a certain type of information
are we learning more about lightsabers
and less about Bob Dylan
or is it
more about those two things and we know nothing about
if you've spent 15 years researching
I try to
port things into the internet that otherwise
might not make it
so if you guys have cool shit whatever it is
that's not in digital form
just try to make it available in digital form
for people
because some guy 300 years from now
is going to be writing the definitive book on something
and he's going to find your shit
and it's going to be the central piece
in some enormous world solving puzzle
but also you're finding out
the fact that
well we didn't even talk about this by the way
Asperger
he
Connor
to round out his role as villain
very clearly
if you type
those names into the internet you will see that
they simultaneously
started diagnosing autistics
at the same time
you actually Woodward and Bernstein
to this shit
that's the thing
for since forever
as they say
people have said that Asperger
and Connor discovered autism virtually
simultaneously
an amazing synchronicity one of the great medical
synchronicities of the 20th century
which I even say in the geek syndrome
anyway it turns out that
Asperger had this chief
diagnostician named George
Frankel and he had
a Jewish problem with the Nazis
he was Jewish
and so George
Frankel was rescued from Vienna
in 1938 by this
guy in Baltimore named
Leo Connor
so the same guy
like for autism
heads like that's huge
like it's a huge scoop
so I'm reading the book and I'm like
man this Connor guy what a villain
and then
he was heroic because he saved Jewish
scientists
and clinicians from the Holocaust
basically everybody in my book is really
complicated and if he buried
his connection his inspiration
he may have done it because
Asperger was associated with Nazis
it may have been for an altruistic reason
right it may have been
so yeah here's the deal
Connor in 1943
becomes the world's leading authority on autism
somehow
for the next several decades he never mentions
Asperger's work
even though Asperger's chief diagnostician
and a woman named Anni Weiss
also from Asperger's clinic
were with Connor when he quote-unquote
discovered autism like no one knew this before
my book was written
and so basically
Connor never mentions Asperger's paper
so people say well
he just didn't read it it was written in German
Connor's native language
well he somehow overlooked it because it was in
the obscure German medical journal
one that Connor cited numerous times
in his work you know and so
the one time that Connor mentions
Asperger's name in public
is in this very dismissive
book review written in the 1970s
and he says oh yes Asperger
what that man discovered was
at best a 42nd cousin
of my syndrome
and has already received serious attention
from investigators
which was total bullshit it hadn't even been translated
into English yet
is that just male douchebag ego stuff
well no I mean you know is it male douchebag ego
or is it that Connor
suspected that Asperger was a Nazi
yeah is it a Schindler like
subversion
believe me that was like the big you know if I could like
summon people with a time machine
and say like why did you do this shit
because the problem with burying Asperger
in history was that it buried the
concept of the spectrum
so Connor defined autism very
narrowly
and whereas Asperger had seen it as this
lifelong condition ranging
from people who couldn't talk at all to chatty
astronomy professors etc
all in the upper tiers of society
and
as an indirect if not
direct result of that sorry
why am I cutting you off to tell you about autism
don't worry about it so basically
Connor
buried autism and someone had to
find it again because
this cognitive psychiatrist in London
named Lorna Wing figured out
that Connor was wrong by
basically walking through a suburb of London
called Camberwell looking for autistic
kids and oh my god did she ever find
them many more than Connor's
narrow model would have predicted
so she was like who are all these kids
these weird kids who would like play their
favorite phonograph record 50 times over
you know couldn't read social signals
or you know one got one
teenager had three wristwatches
because he kept them to various time zones
and guess what in the
in 1978 if
you're one of those kids and you're born black
right because of that
legacy of specialization
of diagnosis you would get
mental retardation you don't come down
that Pachinko machine right yeah you
don't you're not the kid in the hoodie in
the independent movie who's hitting himself in the
head you're you're you're just
retarded because you're poor
and that's like
that made me
want to
and you know the anti-vaccine
people I don't want to stereotype them either
but you know they say stuff like
Jenny McCarthy once said there were
no autistic adults in the past
it's all now
well that would be news to my
many middle-aged autistic friends I have
to say but it would also
be news to the two generations
of autistic people who ended up in institutions
so for 30 years
between the 40s and the 70s
Asperger's findings
were all they were in a journal
they had been there they were just buried
right and you know they were like
five guys in Eastern Europe
who like knew about his work
ten guys that was on Earth Tau
that was on Earth Tau because
Lorna Wing did one of the first basic
prevalence studies of autism in the general population
in other words unlike Connor
she didn't wait for autistic
kids to come to her office
she and a colleague named Judith Gould
went out and pounded the pavement
and like dug through medical records
and special schools and all this
to look for autistic kids and she saw so many of them
she was like what the fuck
like what is going on like why didn't
anyone notice these kids before
and so then she stumbles over a reference
to Asperger's paper
and it was actually in a journal that
Connor edited and it was a paper
designed to make Asperger's
work look like a separate thing anyway
but she's like what is this paper
who is this Asperger she didn't speak German
her husband did he translated it for her
she reads it and it's like this is it
this is the autistic continuum
that's what she called it at first
but she eventually thought continuum was like
two maybe two science fiction
or something you know too dry
so it suggests that
there's no distinction
spectrum suggests a rainbow
right it was like a nice natural
image you know
so yeah basically the concept
of the autism spectrum came
from Lorna Wing rediscovering
Asperger's work after it had been
buried by Connor for many many
decades
is there before
we let you go we've milked
you dry like
I really appreciate
an amazing
interview which I'll credit
myself
absolutely I
have really done a good job interviewing you
I did a good job booking you
we had a New York Times bestseller
on our show
about autism which all of you
clearly have
I did I did a solid first
all of society and I
wove gay people into it
I'm the greatest man alive
tonight
but I want to throw you a bone
so is there anything
what kind of bone exactly do I know
you're kind of like
I know you're a Ginsberg fan
you're from San Francisco
you're from the land of beat poets
I mean like we got applause
from my favorite passages
from the book and I don't want to just
awkwardly and autistically bid you goodbye
like do you have a favorite
like kind of like
I'm nailing it here or this is a great
great part of my book that I love reading out loud
is there anything you want to share
I don't want to do that
but thank you I appreciate it
read the book if you want
I'm going to go right out and get it
you can listen to it at 2.0 speed
it sounds like Martin Scorsese
it's a 16 hour book that way
can I tell you one thing
I saw someone here before
bringing this really cool piece of fan art
the really cool piece of fan art
that somebody made for me about this book
was it was bootleg
audio cassettes
of this book
so it looked like dead tapes basically
it was very cool
alright cool well thank you Steve Silberman
author of Neuro Tribes
neurotypical hero
to the neurologically
diverse world
thank you buddy thank you Steve
god bless you
it's called the legacy of autism
Neuro Tribes a legacy of autism
and the future of neuro adversity
by Steve Silberman with a B
let's get my wife out here I saw her she's back there
together
welcome home
hi how's things what's the crack
did you come back with an Irish Brogue
oh what if I what if I
did you come here from the airport
I did I just landed like an hour ago
and I brought
gifts for everyone
I was in Ireland for almost two months
and I got these at the Heathrow airport
these are some kinder friends
open those up
eggs right
they make the eggs but those are
like little bars
I'm gonna toss these back these are some
Cadbury dairy milk carmel
oh damn
so just open
pass them around
I love the Cadbury's
Jeff I brought you the
Holdsworth sensational collection
these are some chocolates
thank you so much
that was a real reaction by the way
Spencer
oh damn
Spencer I thought you would want to try
the Coca-Cola life
and these are birthday cake
M&Ms
what's Coca-Cola life
it's a
it's just in Europe
and it's
it's not sweetened
it's sweetened
it has calories on it
it's supposed to be like halfway between Diet Coke
and other things
the chocolate is so good
Danny's are for you these are jelly babies
oh shit
who eats them
oh here's some more
chocolate
is this sad
I just realized
was I nervous about coming back to Harmontown
and did I buy chocolate so everyone would
be happy to see me
Dustin this is for you
there's an energy drink called relentless
relentless
there's a
Morrissey head
on the
it's Morrissey's face
and a little star at the bottom of the can
it's him going like
instant energy
and when DeMorge comes out
this is puddles by Cadbury
oh shit
puddles
alright well goodbye going back
well let's get DeMorge out here then
DeMorge Brown you want to come join us
oh yeah
by the way
the song we're hearing tonight is by our good friend
Titanic Sinclair and it's called The Ghost of Harmontown
oh that's good stuff
DeMorge apparently
Erin thought of you when she saw a puddle
I don't know what I did with the puddles
that's just my real
it's Cadbury Oreo
here we go
oh yeah
they got a little crash
is that a fruit nut
smooth mint
the fruit nut one is a goodie
this is delightful
alright well we got for shadow run
just right back at it
oh yeah can we talk about
this enormous piece of fan art
speaking of Aspergian fan art
as Aspergian
can we see what this is
it's a piece of cardboard
you should turn it
with our mayor's image
you should turn it and show the angles
yeah so the uh
this one's no good
wow
look at that
you guys just signed that
oh
alright
it's actually a gift for Dan Harmon
oh Dan Harmon
you're not the guy that did the
masking tape
no is that guy here
oh okay what's your name
fuck you buddy
what are your names of friends that made the art for us
what's your name
Elliot France did you do both of these
she did that one
and your name is what miss? Nicole
Nicole and Elliot thank you so much it's really really groovy
and that guy made me a masking tape
Harmon it's like all made of masking tape
and then like a lacquer over it
that I still have
and then I accidentally blocked him on twitter
he was a casualty of the
Harmon block uh
that we've talked about which has overall
given me a great deal of mental stability
but there are sometimes
I had to
and else on twitter had to send me a link
to a place where people who get Harmon block
to congregate
and talk about
whether they're blocking was
just yeah
and they're very and it's a
sad smirk village of
do they have different like leagues
among them like
I'm a deserved
I just saw all I saw was the guy saying
like I made him a masking tape
Harmon and I was like well that
shouldn't have been blocked
do you remember the circumstances of why you blocked him
I blocked people who
so like if you and I
if we're joking around
like
you know like sometimes there's some
like we razz each other
sometimes when strangers razz me
I blocked them taking the mickey
yeah
like sometimes
unearned I have
an arbitrary definition for unearned
razzing you know I like
it's like it's for the reason I started
blocking is for my own protection
I was like well I don't want to get out
I don't want to just wheaten out of the twitter
like I'll just
like there's so many people on here that just want to
say I love you
hear me say I love you back and
like why so you just
block people but you don't have to hate them
or judge them you just go like it's
if I make a joke and then somebody says get over yourself
like and I go well that's
not why I get on twitter
I love that mute button I love that twitter mute button
it's a good button
if you say if you mention the words teen and wolf
on my twitter
I think I got somebody by accident
today she was making a joke about something else
but she said teen wolf and I instantly was like
I was like I have a
like a standard reply that I have
on a little sticky note that I cut
and paste to all the people so I don't
have to keep writing that I'm not the guy that fucking made
teen wolf
mute buttons not enough for me that would be enough
for a healthy person blocking
and specifically I have to also
then advertise the block
with a hashtag and then I'm like
so you have to bury them and then dance
in their grave
yeah
and then sometimes it's tragedy
you never just mute you never just go
ah cornfield did you kiss
the Blarney stone
I did
not kiss the Blarney stone I didn't make it to the
Blarney stone good because
that would be cheating on me
you didn't cheat on me
you were in Europe for a month
more than a month surrounded
by handsome non McDonald's
indoctrinated men
with abdominal muscles
they have McDonald's
all of them look like Colin Farrell
all of them have names like Mally oh Mally
they do uh yeah
yeah I'll miss that they all it was funny
like we I just this last week
was shooting I think we'll be a
web series around Ireland and
wherever we went I was there with
two Irish guys that were helping me
and they would run into somebody and they'd be like oh you're from
Limerick do you know Sean O'Connor
do you know but like the names are so generic
I was like there must be a thousand Sean O'Connor's
or like Michael Malley
and all that
you think it's gonna be
a web series sorry you think it's
gonna be web series well I shot
I shot this thing call
that I'm calling McGathy in Ireland
which is like a parody of a travel
show where I'm playing like an exaggerated
version of myself going around Ireland
and
being emotionally
self-destructive and stuff and
I say I say I think it's going to be
a web series because I'm not sure
exactly what it's going to be maybe it's going to
be a I don't know I just shot a lot and figuring
out could be about a one woman show
sorry one woman show
it won't be a one woman
show because that would be weird
you mean if I if I was to watch all the footage
and then transcribe it and then perform it as
a one woman show or what about like
a mixed media mosaic
yeah
do you think it could be that you think it could be a
mixed media mosaic I think I think that's a good
I like web series though I'm gonna
yeah
Aaron while you were away Spencer became an idea man
but
but he's become
oddly confined in his thinking about what's
possible it's like he used to be so much
freer but he's really
like he's really he really needs to categorize
things out maybe I shouldn't say web series
because maybe that that people are like
oh web series I love web series
it's going to be it's going to be a network
television show
well you know what's not going to be a network
Harmon quest
so we still need to get some
asses and seats
Harmon quest
more tranquilizers and you will eventually
die it's a
that's I mean that's going to happen regardless
that's the fun are we having trouble
selling our seats if we put the link up oh
we're not selling them we're giving them away
that's what I mean that's what we're having
definite obvious like
like the theater seats like a hundred
eight eight people and like
the one that's on a Saturday night
it's like there's two hundred and forty
people responded within two minutes and then
there's a couple nights where it's like sixty and seventy
people well it's not it's better than that we
you know there's a couple seats left it's not
we're not in any danger you guys
make signals Spencer are you going to give us
our are you are you
are you generating new characters for us
oh yeah I mean will I get that someday
soon if you
you know come get it
oh
I know I know I come
on when I hear one
so
okay I know I missed the boat
there's but there's this there's a gentleman
in this very room
who's been standing against that wall
for the whole show
what what are you doing
you just watching the show okay
that's all I wanted to know I didn't
I thought it'd be rude to ask earlier
when a you know Steve was on
did you feel like he was like hearing
some official capacity I thought he hated
you know sitting
New York Times bestsellers or something
yeah no I thought
he was going to kill Steve Silverman
and I've been
watching
what about the other guy is that Steve
that's Steve Levy okay
yeah so you're wondering who that guy was
yeah don't worry just feel
weird for the rest of the
I mean it's only 20 minutes
he probably just doesn't have anywhere to sit right
there's plenty of places
to stand I'm not going to lie I don't have a problem
with you standing there but I'm going to comment on it
now Steve
I know you said that you're not like practicing
religious Jew but are you
is there something that you that we could all
like do on Rosh Hashanah like as
Gentiles and Goyim and what not
is like is there some fun thing that we can do
to participate in your awesome New Year's
I mean is there a thing you say
is you put on a hat do you do a dance
you taught me something before
we have a Jewish dissenter over here
nope
how about close enough
no Jews in Ireland
Saint Goyim
you led them to the sea right with a flute
there are some but there's only
there's only one there
there's only one Jewish temple
but while I was there I met a lot of people
that were like there's one synagogue or temple
on all of Ireland yeah really
yeah what's that about
I am
I mean both rabbis
and leprechauns have like
there's competition for that corner
both of them if you pour salt
on their feet they have to give up their gold
like
and they're both just like
they'll if you
say well there's just a lot of the stories
about leprechauns they have others
there's rabbi stories
you know there's like rabbi give me your
gold and
and there's like I'll tie a ribbon
around the tree that has
the gold under it and then there's like
ribbon on every tree
and you're like
rabbi
what Dan's trying to say is
happy Rosh Hashanah Jews
Shana Tova
I could be right there's only one
temple on Dublin I could be right about that
was there like a pogrom or a
persecution are there just like Jews are like
Ireland?
well yeah because there's no like real
there's a reason
for it as to like the industrial revolution
and stuff and just the Jewish people didn't
immigrate to Ireland
and also Irish people just think they're bad luck so they put them in a hole
and
they're obsessed with luck over there
it's like their
dollar is backed by luck
it's like
it's either the most ingenious or the worst
decision you can ever make like ours is backed by
nothing it used to be gold but they converted
to luck in 1938
so if you have two dollars
it's worth four dollars because you're
clearly luckier than someone with a dollar
and it's very complicated
and a lot of people
think it's going to lead to a big crash
were they
talking about fairies and shit over there
I hear they do that
oh the boggard came out this morning
or something you know
Nixie's on the port bow
I mean they don't
they don't talk like when you're ordering your coffee
they're not like
let the leaf hurry bless you today
it's not like that
it is definitely like in the background
there is like a
it does feel like genuinely magic over there
and there is like
it is part of there
what are my new Dublin friends told me
that when he was a kid
that he was afraid
because he believed in fairies
because he was a kid
and the fairies would come in and climb up
into his bed and like pick at his face
bed bugs
they definitely talk about
something they do do
which took me a little while to get used to
when I was down
I went I busked
do you guys know what busking is
busking is street performing
and I did that in Galway a few days ago
and I had
I had just like a Celtic drum
and in the shop when I bought the drum
I was trying to do it and the woman was like
no no no it's up and down like a paint brush
and I was like okay so I got it
nope nope but you have to leave the store
you have to
you got it
you cannot drum in here any longer
so we went out on the street
and I like with the drum
started out like busking
it was also illegal to busk without a license
so
pretty cool
I busked in front of Tommy Hilfiger for a little while
just advertising Tommy Hilfiger
and then I
it was on camera when you were alone
I was
both
but I thought it would be really funny to do
the soundtrack to rent
on the streets of Galway so I did that until
I met this man that was blowing bubbles
named Seamus
and you probably met Bubbles too I guess
we'll be right back
it would be rude to not introduce yourself
welcome home
welcome back from the emerald isle
of lyrical wit
and your shitty fat mountain of tits
boyfriend who
just wants to be loved
don't we all
Seamus was blowing bubbles
and
I
felt like I needed more
to my act and so I walked up to Seamus
and asked him what he was doing and I was like
oh I'm blowing bubbles I love blowing bubbles
and I said
will you blow bubbles near me
while I sang and he's like
yeah all right
sure sure sure
and so he picked up
he was blowing just one thing of bubbles and I turned
and there's a whole line against the wall
all of these bottles of bubbles
and so I helped him get his bubbles together
and the moment that I was like oh Seamus
I don't know why I didn't assume this
Seamus isn't neurotypical
as he was polishing his
bubbles
I'm not diagnosing him as autistic
but obviously he's not
anyway he picked up all his bubbles
and or not obviously
fuck me okay so I picked up all the bubbles
helped him with the bubbles and we started
singing and I was singing
I was just like improvising about people that
were walking by
and these kids were watching me
and these kids were eating their gelato and like
laughing and I was like teasing these kids
and he stops blowing the bubbles
and he says have you ever had sex
the bubble
bubble guy? yeah Seamus
yeah Seamus stopped blowing bubbles
oh no he was still blowing bubbles
to me to me to me to me
and the kids are
how old is Seamus?
Seamus is probably late 50's early 60's
how old are the kids?
they were right in the sweet spot
they were good to go Dimarch
yeah
in your parlance
he didn't see the kids
also Seamus didn't
I said that you know we're going to be filming this
it's for this silly travel thing so that's what
those guys are doing with like this big
camera and this boom mic
and he was like had no did not care
and the kids were far away
and he turns to me and says have you had sex
and I was like Seamus
for shame
I said
Seamus I don't want to have that conversation
with you and he said ah hi had sex
once 40 years ago
and he's saying this as he's like blowing
bubbles
and I look over at the guys who are filming
and they can hear everything and they're giving me the
like you cool face
or in Ireland you grand
so
he then said
I had sex 40 years ago
with a woman and she was the only lady
I ever had sex with and she died
last year probably because she was so
fat and then she's just
continuing to blow bubbles
and I was like
and then he said you know
they don't talk about AIDS anymore do they
as I was like
don't bury the lead Seamus
no I think they still
talk about AIDS he's like no no no
they don't talk about it no more
they don't talk about AIDS no more
I said I know
with AIDS and he just continued to blow his bubbles
and
the saddest thing was that we put out a
hat to make money and because I'm a brilliant
businesswoman put money in the
hat myself so people would be like
whoa
this must be good
yeah yeah
I made a deal with Seamus that
we could split whatever we made
and we made nothing
so I took out
20 euro like a cash
20 euro and handed it
to him and I was like here you go he's like
we made this we made this today I was like
yeah yeah we made this
made this 20 euro
and I gave it to him from the AIDS talk
Seamus
as I walked away from him
and I was walking with my friends
we had to we were leaving to go
to Gale talk which is like a
village where they only speak Irish and I
just started crying and it was like
I feel so awful and they're like yes
too like let's take a walk
that's the end of that sad story
wait what made you feel awful
yeah
well I
it just
I don't know it just
kind of hit me with it I don't know it just
felt really dark also when I was busking
you know what it also was that like at a
certain point I thought it would be funny to
just list all my insecurities
like sing all my insecurities and I felt
like I was kind of exploiting myself a little bit
um
I don't know do you guys ever feel that way
it's called
Harmontown
um
but you just wanted to like you mean because
he was sort of uh
touched and uh in
multiple senses and you wanted to like
it was like a dark glimpse like
the guy that painted the
our house the the guy with the headphones
uh yeah like I started
crying about that uh well you know I
never met him right you know I
never felt bad for like we didn't feel bad
for Seamus because Seamus I think
it was the juxtaposition of like me
uh
feeling because I was listing all these things that I
was insecure about and worried about
so it made me like really think about those things
just juxtaposed with Seamus
who who not only does he blow
out bubbles all the time he
is always like ah they're just
so beautiful the bubbles look at the bubbles
and oh look at this bubble and that bubble
and then uh there were a couple of times
when I was joke I was and I was doing this for
the camera like when he would slow down a little bit
and I would be like Seamus come on come on
let's go let's go let's go and he was like
oh yeah yeah yeah and then
sometimes he would accidentally blow them in my face
but like he was he was like
he was happy he was a happy person
and then I was like you know
I'm beating my drum and like demanding
the world to tell me I'm okay and I was like
what's wrong with me that was that was why
I felt sad but it was great it was great fun
I also uh
it was real good
I also when I took
I was brought up mostly in Southern California
so obviously my first time taking
surf lessons was in Ireland
that's crazy you went surfing
yeah yeah with with uh
with Alan the surf instructor
who was very nice and I'm sorry
Danny was very handsome but he was very short
I wish some of these people were women
hahahaha
would make sense
because they're half the population
I don't understand why everyone in Ireland's a guy
yeah
that all wants to teach you something
right right right well and these stories
I uh I met I met all these people
through uh these wonderful
female comedians in Dublin
um Alison Spittle
and Andrea Ferrell
and so they
there were plenty there were plenty of women
say out with a lot of women
just no handsome
just no handsome women
I don't really understand your joke
hahahaha
oh I see okay yeah
he's just connecting dots man
should we play a tiny bit of Shatter Run
before we uh before we fuck on
jury's out on jelly babies
do they taste like jelly
bears not those
they're not like gummy bears at all
they're shaped exactly like them
but they're uh they're uh
no they're very chewy
I mean not as chewy as gummy bears
I mean they're not oh god
they're like you just eat them like a
I'm just noticing that like they're really
they're naked except for their shoes
look at the cover it's a little creepy
yeah
and they're all kind of humping something
also something that distinguishes them
from gummy bears is that their flavors
are very distinct
yellow and the
and the dark ones are gross they're like
licorice yeah
yeah
I like licorice
it's just interesting to know
that that's what Dr. Who was eating the whole time
Dr. Who eats jelly babies
oh it does?
cool
I think I can smell your jelly babies from here
are they kind of citrusy or like
yeah they are do you want to try a jelly
I don't like I'm not a really like a jelly
I like to smell your jelly babies
I don't have any
I want to go blow bubbles
I want to watch you blow bubbles
I smell your jelly babies
let's play a brief shutter run
shall we just
tie a nice little bow on this thing
yeah we got
we got enough of a crew up here
yeah
what do you got going on
he's just a puddle
I think it's a green jelly baby
what's your what's your verdict on jelly babies
it tasted green I had to
it tasted green and I looked
and it was green
Timoran is just a simple man
that and 90 thoughts about
soccer that's all that's going on right now
I went hurling
oh jeez
I learned hurling
I played hurling
how'd you do
well hurling
everyone I know from Ireland has a big scar
on their face because you
give a bunch of kids sticks
wrapped in sheet metal
the most complex set of tasks to do
with that stick
you have to carry the
spiff or the ball on the stick
like an egg and then you have to
hit it into a net it's like a combination of
football and rugby and it's weird
but I played it with a bunch of 8 year old boys
meow
why do I keep on making pedophile jokes
I made a joke about pedophilia
surf thing which caused a lot
of problems and they kept on calling
the guy that was produced the guy
with the penis that was producing my show
and just demanding
that it not be in the show anyway
who did
the surf instructor and I wasn't even making a joke
about them or anything and it wasn't even on camera
but it wasn't even their joke
why do they have demands
they didn't want pedophilia associated
with the surf school and they did it so much
that I was like I feel like
no it is fair but we were like
we weren't even filming
it's fair to not want pedophilia associated with
microscopes but if the owner of a microscope
company was that insistent about it
I'd start investigating
and
let's put you on a slide
and look
for pedophilia
and he'd be like this is exactly what I didn't want
and I'd go yeah
he runs a school
there's children that come and take surf lessons
and we can't be making pedophile jokes
is that surfing
in children that's a big thing
schools are for children man
I actually don't want to talk anymore about it
because I promised him I wouldn't talk anymore
what was the name of this
we didn't promise him anything
this guy sounds like a pedophile to me
it's tiny touches
full hearts
sounds like this guy wants to
hang ten years old
it's called our little
it's called our little secret surf school
cowabunghole
it's called
no one will believe you
I'm doing dumb puns
but you're going really dark
it's called doesn't this make you feel special
I chose you
surf school
the surf isn't all that's up
my hard dick
the reason it's hard is because you're young
surf school
we don't have to play shadow
we can just do ten more minutes of this
just take off your surf school
we can't play shadow
there's no time for shadow run now
let's just ride this metaphorical wave
into the
one of their slogans could be
now
students
now 20% less likely
to die by shark attack
relative to
the ways that they're likely to die
from coming to our surf school
because the other
ways are
spiking
which include disappearance
a wave goodbye
to healthy sex in your adulthood
surf school
the least lucky place in Ireland
was there somebody else that we wanted to
was there any other business we had to tend to
that's not happening
I got the date wrong on that
we had a little secret surprise
but we're doing it another time
it was Dan and I announcing
my new surf school
Dan Spencer and I
have been working on an all nude review
it's going to have to wait another week
why am I not on it?
cause you're out of town
you know what
a couple of things to warn you about
Nigel puked on the duvet
there's not another one
did you clean it up?
yeah
but
it's puke
it's not permanent
did you not clean it up really?
yeah
I took toilet paper and cleaned it up
did you spray it with anything?
excuse me
is this still on the bed?
did you shit on the floor?
and then there's also
I would just be prepared
I feel like Harvey
when you walk in the door
I would like to videotape
the dog seeing you
I feel like Harvey may
pee
he may pee
cause he's been peeing
he peed all over
I came over and he laid on his back
and just arched a beautiful little rainbow
of pee all over my shoe
I think part of that was the steroids
from his ear infection medication
also the cat's dying
welcome home
she's on three different
types of medication
and one of them is a bag of fluid
that I've probably told you about
cause I've owned cats before
once their kidneys start going
to those families
we're going to have to hang a bag
and do the subcutaneous
injection into FIV
Steve do you think it's too late
to book another flight
back to
I'm just kidding I was like oh god
it'll be grand
on a positive note
Dan informed us of the audience tonight
that he'd taken his first shower
and gone today
at least you dressed up for me
really
the first shower
why would I
it's fine
it's your own life
it's your own body
what if I share it with you
I don't know
what the first shower
in like two months guys
that's crazy
it's fine it's your own business
that's
this is going great
seems like you cheated on me
in Ireland
with showers
with so many showers
with so many showers and babs
well
Dan did you cheat on Aaron
with video games
yeah
I loved them
I cheated on you
with myself
with some
some good self-discovery
I spent a lot of time
I did masturbate someone was giggling
did you bring some tingle sticks along
some tingle sticks what are tingle sticks
cattle prods
here we go
oh I see
no no no
I
had a great time I spent a lot of time by myself
realized that I'm okay
it's all good
I did play I did a lot of stuff
you seem a little unhappy
I just got off of a 14 hour flight
were you first class
I was first class
and I flew first class
what airline
I feel like we're just
British Airways
very nice through
American frequent fire miles
damn
well DeMorge we didn't really get to talk to you much tonight
do you have final thoughts for us DeMorge
no man
the biggest thing that happened
that doesn't compare to any of this is that I spent
a couple of hours
going on a rant
about a catamized poetry
and
I had a friend who was saying
I'm getting into it on my own
and there's no place to find it
a catamized poetry
just poetry that is
speaking of masturbating
hey up here dude
it's a sexual organ
we've lost track
of poetry maybe 25-30 years ago
we don't even know
the definition of
younger American poets
are you a poet?
no but I ran the writing program
at college and I ran the writing journal
with a couple of friends of mine
and it's just
you get in that habit of just following
and keeping up with who the new
younger American poets are
and
so it wasn't an angry rant
it was just saying to my friend there are these places
all over town, all over the place
and they're free and it's frequent and it's often
and his face lit up
because he generally was
reading on his own
and loving what he was reading
and he discovered how to read a book of poetry
which we don't even teach kids anymore
we don't teach them how poets come up with a book
and what that means about their lives
the same way an album comes together
and in a lot of cases it's just as exciting
impossible to convince you of that right now
but
if you know it, it's true
and you spend a lifetime developing that
and stacking it up on top of itself
so there was a rant that I won
this is in between me screaming about the jets kicking
and Cleveland Brown's ass
hey it happened
our quarterback has a broken jaw
the second string guy destroyed you guys
the defense looks amazing, our coach is a genius
suck it
that was a haiku
no sports, no sports, no sports
and also arson
sports suck, definitely sports suck
and just
and then
just a shit show that is arsonal
and our french coach sitting in interviews and just going
well we had a certain quality
and the players were good today
and the boys did whatever they did
these are the things that I
I'm single guys
I was hoping someone would yell no in response to that
go ahead
you know if you zip your
dick into
a swimsuit
which by the way, don't get a swimsuit with a zipper
I was going to say that
in the ocean, sharks will come
cliffhanger
thank you for coming everybody
welcome back Aaron McGasey
DeMorge Brown
thank you very much
thank you Nicole and Elliot
for the lovely art, that was fantastic
one more time for Steve Silberman tonight everybody
and as always
I want to thank Kris Boruff, our tech director Kevin Day
our internet guy
Sarah Hills, Act McKeever and Dustin Marshall
Spencer Crittenden
I'm Jeff Davis, your mayor is Mr. Dan Harmon
Drive Fast, take chances all
did you get any of that?
it's a good show